---
title: Lists and Compass
date: 2021-01-01 12:00:00 +1100
math: true
code: true
actual_prev:
  title: Loops and Infrared
  url: /posts/repeat
---

**TODO**

## Why lists?

At this point, hopefully you agree that we can do a lot of cool and different things with our programs.

In the last post, we learnt how to make code repeat certain instructions for an arbitrarily long time (Repeat this until this condition is true). What we are missing, however, is a similar thing for variables.

Consider a previous example of computing the square numbers smaller than 50:

<div class="code_container" markdown="1">

```python
x = 1

# Print x * x while it is <= 50.
while x * x <= 50:
    square = x * x
    print(f"{x}^2 = {square}")
    x = x + 1
```

```text
### Output ###
>>> 1^2 = 1
>>> 2^2 = 4
>>> 3^2 = 9
>>> 4^2 = 16
>>> 5^2 = 25
>>> 6^2 = 36
>>> 7^2 = 49
```

</div>

The main problem we run into is: After this loop has run, how can we remember all of the square numbers we calculated?
We can't create a new variable for each, because we don't necessarily now how many times this loop will run. That's where the list comes into play!

### Creating

A list does what it says on the tin: It is a list of other bits of data, and it starts and ends with square brackets `[]`.
Creating a list in python is super simple, you just write out the list as data:

```python
my_number = 3
# This is a list, with 3 items.
my_list = [1, "two", my_number]
```

You can also add to a list, with `.append()`. So we can rewrite our old program to store the squares:

<div class="code_container" markdown="1">

```python
x = 1
# Create an empty list
squares = []

# Print x * x while it is <= 50.
while x * x <= 50:
    square = x * x
    print(f"{x}^2 = {square}")
    # Add square to the list
    squares.append(square)
    x = x + 1

print(squares)
```

```text
### Output ###
>>> 1^2 = 1
>>> 2^2 = 4
>>> 3^2 = 9
>>> 4^2 = 16
>>> 5^2 = 25
>>> 6^2 = 36
>>> 7^2 = 49
>>> [1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49]
```

</div>

### Changing and Accessing

Creating a list is cool and all, but storing data is only useful if you can later modify or retrieve it. For example, in the code above, we might want to ask "What is the third square?". To do this, we write `squares[2]`. `squares[0]` is the first element (1), `squares[1]` is the second element (4), and `squares[2]` is the third element (9). This continues until the end of the list.

`squares[0],squares[1],squares[2]...` are essentially just variables, you can read and change their values in the same way. Because of this, we can also change the list. Writing `squares[4] = 0` will change the 5th item in the list from 25 to 0.

### Strings and Splitting

One place Python already has introduced you to something like a list is a strings. Strings are like lists of characters, and you can index them too:

<div class="code_container" markdown="1">

```python
my_string = "Testing"
print(my_string[2])
print(my_string[6])
```

```text
### Output ###
>>> s
>>> g
```

</div>

Even more useful, we can break a string up with the `split` function. `split` takes some character in between the brackets, and will break up the original string into a list, based on this character. If no character is given in the brackets, then any empty space will break up the string.

<div class="code_container" markdown="1">

```python
my_underline_string = "Beep_Boop_Blargh"
my_space_string = "Hello Testing 1234"
print(my_underline_string.split("_"))
print(my_space_string.split())
```

```text
### Output ###
>>> ["Beep", "Boop", "Blargh"]
>>> ["Hello", "Testing", "1234"]
```

</div>

**TODO Bugfix puzzle**

## The Compass Sensor

**TODO Explanation**

**TODO Move to location puzzle**

## List Splicing

**TODO Explanation**

**TODO Days of the Month**

## Fast Looping

### On lists

**TODO Explanation**

### On numbers

**TODO Explanation**

**TODO Three of a kind**

## Project

**TODO**
